Let's start with the user location
and for that unsurprisingly, we need another package which makes it easy for us to get that location.
You can search for location on pub.dev to find that location package
and this is a package which helps you with getting the user location.
So here again, under installing, you find the installation instructions, in the README you'll find the usage
instructions
and now here, go to pubspec.yaml
and add this location package here.
Now with that added, as always quit that process already, you'll need to do a full restart anyways
and of course run Flutter packages get if it doesn't run automatically
and now we can start using that. To get the location,
I'll add a new widget in the widgets folder,
we have an image input,
now it's time for a place input or a location input if you will, which allows us to pick a location and
show a preview on the map. In there, we'll need a stateful widget because I'll manage the data we fetch
here,
I'll manage the preview image I want to show in here, so we'll need to update this widget from inside
and I'll name this location input
and of course as always, import the material.dart file. Now in there, in the build method of the
state class, I want to have a column because my idea is to have a big preview of the map and then below that,
two buttons, one button to open a full screen map where we can select the location by tapping on it and
one button to select the user by location.
So here, I'll have the first item therefore which is my
preview container which shows a preview of the map, I'll give this a height of let's say 170
maybe, a width of double infinity to take the full width
of the device and the child here,
well then that depends on whether we have a loaded location for which I can show a preview or not.
So I'll actually add a property here which is a string and that should be a preview imageUrl.
Now it might sound strange but in the end here, we'll store a link, a URL pointing at a preview
image of the location we chose,
so a preview image of the map snapshot we chose and Google has an API that creates such images on the
fly,
really cool and we'll use it in a second.
So for now here, I just added this property and then we can use the property down there
when we're outputting a child in a container and if that's equal to null, so if we have no loaded location
which we can preview yet, then I just want to show a text where I say no location chosen, give this a text
align of textAlign.center like this and otherwise, here
I want to render an image.
Now this will be a network image because this will now not be an image we store on the device
but as I said, we'll use a Google API that creates it on the fly,
therefore that will be stored on Google's servers so to say or generated by Google's servers.
So here, we'll reach out to that URL which we'll in the end store in here,
so point at the preview imageUrl here and then give this a fit of BoxFit.cover to fit it
nicely into the surrounding container and also give it a width of double infinity,
so that it takes the full width of the surrounding container.
Now on the container, I also want to set up an alignment of alignment.center to center the text vertically
and horizontally centered
and then the text itself is also centered inside of its box
and with that, we should be prepared to output a preview.
Now of course, a preview isn't worth that much if we have no way to get a location.
So below that preview container, I'll add a row because I want to have two buttons sit next to each other
and therefore the children of that row are two flat buttons, to be precise flat buttons that also have
an icon with that special icon constructor here.
Now the first FlatButton will have an icon where I used the icons widget of icons location on, gives
us this nice map marker icon here which I find quite nice for this button and a label of let's say
current location because that should be the button for getting the current user location
and of course, that should be a text widget
and besides these two things, I also want to set a text color, text color here should be theme of context
primary color let's say
and of course, we need an onPressed handler and for now, this is an empty method.
The second button has generally the same set up, so I'll copy that over there but the icon is a different
one, instead of location on, I'll use the map icon and instead of the text current location, it makes more
sense to say select on map or anything like that. Color is the same and for now, I also have no onPressed
handler there.
So with that, we got this setup,
now let's view it before we work with it.
So in the add place screen, where we have the image input, we can add another SizedBox to add a little bit of
spacing with a height of 10 again maybe
and then here, I want to use my location input, so I'll import this from the widgets folder,
location_input.dart
and with that input added here, down there below the SizedBox we just added, we can add the location
input widget like that. Let's save this and then restart that, on app, start the rebuild process and start it
on the Android emulator to have a look at this before we then of course also add functionality
and now what you'll notice at this point is that the app doesn't start. This makes a lot of sense because
as I mentioned, you should always read the README of packages you're using, especially if that package
uses native device functionalities.
Here we get informed that we need to add a certain entry to the AndroidManifest file to make this work
on Android
and you also need to add certain entries to the info.plist on iOS,
this is all required to request the right permissions.
So let's go to the Android folder and there in the app folder, to the src folder, to the main folder and
then to the AndroidManifest file and there you can add your permission right here outside of this application
node inside of this manifest node. This use the permission, Android permission access find location. That
is required so make sure you add this to the AndroidManifest and to make it work on iOS as well, go
to iOS, the runner folder and then info.plist and there as you see, you need to add these two keys
so let's copy that key-value pair we added for the camera and then copy the first key location, when
in use, usage description needs to get your location. As always, you want to have a message here that
really convinces the user to give you that permission, so be really clear about what you're planning
to do with that data or why you need it, also add that second key and there I'll use the same
dummy message for now.
Now with that, we have the permissions set up,
now you'll notice that there are more settings you need to add though.
So for Android you all need to change that gradle.properties file and basically add these two entries,
you'll find that file in the Android folder and then there, it's that gradle.properties file, simply
add these two entries you find here at the start of this file, that's important and also make sure you
have these entries here in your build.gradle file, though I had no problems before without these additions,
so I'll not add them here but if you're facing problems, add these dependencies in that
build.gradle file. The adjustments in the gradle.properties file are definitely required
and with that, now you can try restarting your application, do a full rebuild and launch it on the device
and now see whether that works.
So this is looking better,
the app launched,
now let's go to the add places screen and now here, you see that preview area for the map
and then the two buttons.
Now there are some stylistic adjustments I want to make in the location input, for one on that preview
container,
I'll add a decoration, BoxDecoration object therefore and set a border to border.all where I have
a width of 1 and a color of Colors.grey
to have a grey border around that preview container and that color: of course.
So that's one thing
and in the row with the buttons, it would be nice to have them centered
and therefore we can add main axis alignment and then MainAxisAlignment.center here for the row
with the two flat buttons
and now this looks much nicer.
Now let's next ensure that the current location here really uses the location package to fetch
the user location.